data transformation
> clean data in excel
transform SP1500 to stationary by differencing
dsp1500utilities=d(sp1500utilities)
R=dlog(sp1500utilitiess)*100
=log rerturns easier to explain percentage increase. easier to observe volatility trends on the graph plot
log retuens become stationary
by doing the first differencing we make the data stationary.

Data plots.
VIX line plot is following a steady line over time-stationary
SP1500utilities line plot is volatile def not stationary
Predictability of returns and squared returns
examibe the plots
check for high and low volatility.
extremes in sqr returns in 2008 economic crisis
generate equation 
r c ar(1)
use the corellogram to look at the acf and Pacf function
examine whether the functions exponentially decaying or significant.
check for the  extreme values (0.05)
examine the corellogram residual Q statistics check whether the graph is flat or whether it is larger than
0.05
for white noise> look at residuals corellogram plot.... are they flat. if it is flat no correlation which means the process does not have a memory >there is white noise
for satbility;
>- check the regression output add the garch and residual under the variance eqn. If less than 1 model is stable and vice versa
test on IGARCH
open drop down restrictions on GARCH model.
on IGARCH the RESID plus GARCH coefficient should be equal to 1.
Unconditional Varaiance
created a garch series using make garch series from proj window
create a new series called sigma
sigma=@sqrt(garch03)
use the group of VIX and SIGMA to analyse whether or not you have unconditional variance
fore heteroscadasticity.
<view<residual diagnostics<ARCH LM test ( if chi distribution is >0.05 there is no heteroscadastoicity)
checking for leptokurtosis.
residual diagnostics<histogram bormality test. if larger than 3 there is leptokurtosis
consider nonnormal alternatives conditional leptokurtosis
change threshold and observe.
< view GARCH graph check if new impact curve is assymetric
calculate
 VAR of your choice of model compare to VIX
